("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- I will get
to the other side.
All this rock and
rubble can't stop me.
Birk's there, and
I will get to him.
- [Narrator] Finally,
Ronja's fever was gone.
As the snow continued to
fall outside the fort,
she worked hard beneath it,
removing rubble blocking
an underground passage.
She hoped that this
would lead her to Birk.
The boy she now called brother.
(tapping)
(whistling)
(rustling)
- [Birk] Ronja?
- Birk!
Birk.
Could that really
be you up there?
I need to know if you still
want to be my brother.
Do you?
(laughing)
- [Birk] Of course
I do, sister mine.
It's good to hear your voice.
I'd like to see you, too.
Are your eyes still as
black as they used to be?
(giggles)
- Why don't you come
and see for yourself?
(loud rustling)
(shushes)
(tapping)
Tomorrow.
(screaming)
- Just as I suspected.
In the name of all the harpies.
Ronja, what have you been
doing down here, then?
- Uh...
Sometimes even I get
bored of shoveling snow.
- Oh.
- Come on, let's
get out of here.
- Ah.
Of course, you can't
shovel snow all the time.
Though down here,
it's just as cold.
Let's get nice and warm
and play some dice, hmm?
You were never down here, right?
- Yeah.
Never here, exactly.
Come on then.
(laughs)
(playful music)
- Go ahead.
(sighs)
(hums)
(grunts)
(groans)
(snoring)
- If Mattis wants to throw
out the Borka Robbers,
how come he didn't remember
the underground passage?
(soft music)
I'm glad he didn't.
The Borka Robbers must be
allowed to stay where they are
in the north fort.
Then Birk can stay.
Tomorrow.
Can't wait.
(soft music)
(grunts)
- If we do not comb
your hair more,
they'll think the daughter
of Mattis the robber
is covered in lice.
And they'll laugh at you.
(groans)
You too, Mr. Mattis.
(screams)
- Oh no.
(yelps)
Look at this matted hair.
You lousy robbers.
All twelve of you with lice.
I have had enough.
- Please, you're
tearing out my hair.
- So our fearless chief is
afraid
of having his hair combed.
As long as I have the
power, I will continue
to comb your hair.
- That's enough.
Spare me.
- Shame it stopped snowing.
I was enjoying that.
Good weather.
(yawning)
We're starving.
- Meals are for those
who've done all their work.
- It's too early for that.
- Yeah, and we've
had nothing to eat.
- Finish doing everything
before it snows again.
Huh?
Ah.
- I stayed up all night
coming up with a new plan
to drag the Borka Robbers out.
- You're able to make
plans while you're snoring?
That is truly impressive.
- Go ahead.
Tease me if you'd like.
But I promise you,
this is a great scheme.
(coughs)
Although maybe we shouldn't
talk here about the plan.
- Ah, yes.
Perhaps we should
speak in my room then.
- That's exactly
what I had in mind.
(laughs)
- Now get back to work.
- Yes, Lovis.
We're going, we're going.
(door shuts)
- I might just eat
my lunch underground.
(playful music)
Hello?
Birk?
Come on.
(sighs)
(gasps)
- It's about time you came down.
- I could hardly wait.
Especially since you
saved me from the
rumphobs and harpies.
It's great to see you.
- And you too.
I can see your eyes now.
Still black.
And yet, you've
grown a little paler.
- Have I?
Well you look a lot thinner.
- I know.
Because I haven't been
eating all that much.
Still, I've had more
than anyone else
in Borka's Keep.
But a bit more than nothing
is still next to nothing.
- Do you mean there's not
enough to eat for you all?
That there's not enough
food for everyone?
- Yes, that's right.
None of us have had enough to
eat for quite some time now.
We might not make it to spring.
At this rate, I'm afraid
we'll all be dead.
Just like you wanted.
That's what you said.
Remember?
- Maybe, when we first met.
But not anymore, Birk.
Now you're my brother.
And I'll help you.
My brother won't starve.
(soft music)
(gasps)
You have to eat.
Please take the bread.
(soft music)
(giggling)
But wasn't all this food
meant to be for you?
- I'm not the one who's hungry.
Anyway, there's plenty
more where that came from.
(soft music)
(stomach gurgles)
So why is everyone
starving in your fort?
- The thing is,
when we moved here,
we left everything behind.
What little food we brought
is finally running out.
Before we came here,
we had goats, sheep,
and stores of food.
Now horses are all
we've got left.
We stabled them for the
winter with a farmer
down beyond the forest.
Thank goodness we did.
Otherwise, we would
have had to eat them.
Can you imagine?
(laughs)
Ah, what a winter we're having.
(laughing)
Poor old robbers.
That's what we are.
You can smell the
stench of winter on me,
can't you Ronja?
I reek of it.
Hardly had any water, either.
(strong blowing winds)
Trying to haul water up the
cliff base was impossible.
So now, we have to melt snow.
Just to get a small
amount of water,
we have to make a fire.
But we don't want to use up
what little wood we have left.
And now you know
why us Borka Robbers
all smell so bad.
- Don't think that you're alone.
Our robbers smell the same.
(giggles)
- [Ronja] He's certainly
a handsome brother.
- It's not important.
It doesn't matter if
you're poor, and smelly,
and covered in dirt and lice.
I won't see you go hungry.
I won't.
- And what makes you think
that I might have lice?
(gasps)
(giggling)
Oh, and the truth is out.
But I'd rather have lice
than go hungry again.
That's for sure.
Hunger is a terrible thing.
Oh!
What about Undis?
I forgot to leave any
of the bread for her.
- Right.
I'll get some straightaway.
- Please, no.
Undis would ask me where
the bread came from.
How could I tell her
that you gave it to me?
And Borka would be so
furious, he'd split the sky.
And if he knew I'd
become your brother.
(sighs)
- That's true.
I don't understand
why everything has
to be so complicated.
Oh, Birk.
We can only ever meet in secret.
- I agree.
And I hate doing
things in secret.
- I feel the same.
The only thing worse than
salted cart is long winters.
And the only thing
worse than long winters
is silly secrets.
(groans)
Do you understand?
Hiding our friendship
is wrong, I tell you.
It's wrong.
(giggles)
- But we'll do it for our
sake, won't we sister mine?
- Mhm.
- When spring comes, we
can meet in the woods
instead of this ice cold place.
(shivers)
- That's true.
I have to go now.
Before I freeze to death.
- Will you come back tomorrow?
(giggles)
To your lice-ridden brother?
- Of course.
(soft music)
- [Narrator] And Ronja
kept her promise.
Throughout the winter, she
woke up early every morning
and met with Birk.
She gave him food to
help him and his family
survive the harsh winter months.
If Mattis ever found out
that Ronja was responsible
for keeping his enemies
from starvation,
he would be furious.
(snoring)
(soft music)
- Here.
Hide these in your stores
for your mother to find.
- Oh, it feels a bit like
I'm stealing this from you.
(giggles)
- Really, Birk?
You forget I am a
robber's daughter.
What we want, we simply take.
Without permission from anyone.
It's not really wrong.
Mattis told me so.
See those beans, that whole
bag was taken as well.
We took them from a band
of traveling merchants
out in the woods.
But Lovis baked that loaf
of bread that I gave to you.
And why not?
I'm only doing
what I've learned.
Birk, don't worry yourself.
(giggling)
(soft music)
So I suppose this
is what I've become.
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter.
(cheerful music)
"Wretched Robbers".
Don't miss it.
(upbeat music)